---
title: Answers for Week 3 - Networking and the Internet
---

**A1:** 

**A2:** Local Area Network (LAN). If you are talking about a single building or a campus, local area network is the most suitable.

**A3:** Bus, Star, Mesh, Line, Ring, Tree...

**A4:** For a network to operate functionally, there must be rules. Otherwise how would the computers communicate with each other? Protocols are rules for a network to function reliably. 

**A5:** Each message is broadcasted to all machines in the bus. When a machine receives the message, it checks whether it is addressed to itself or not. If the message is not addressed to itself, it does not store it. When sending a message, every machine monitors the bus to see if it is silent or not. If it is available, starts transmission but still monitors. If someone else tries to send a message, they both understand there is a collision and pause for a random period before re-transmission.

**A6:** Repeater does not care about the meaning of the messages. It just passes signals back and forth. Bridge is more complex. It also connects two buses, but it checks the destination address of each message only forwards it when it is addressed to the other side. 

**A7:** You combine two incompatible networks together by using _routers_. It is called _Internet_.

**A8:** Forwarding table helps router to choose directions for the messages. 

**A9:** In client and server model, single server provides services to multiple clients. In P2P, they provide services to each other; peer to peer. In CS model, a server must execute continuously to provide for clients, in P2P it only executes on a temporary basis. 

**A10:** Because in cluster computing, there are several machines working together. Even if one of them fails, the task can be done by other computers in the cluster.

**A11:**

**A12:** 

**A13:** CSMA/CD is not compatible with wireless star networks. Because in those networks there is no way to see whether the communication line is busy or not. In CSMA/CD, before sending a message machines check the availability of the bus. Here, this is not possible. In addition, transmission may collide and signals can be blocked because of the environment. That is why wireless networks try to _avoid_ collisions rather than _detect_ them.

**A14:** Application Layer, Transport Layer, Network Layer and Link Layer. 

1. Application Layer: Deals with messages from the application's point of view.
2. Transport Layer: Converts messages into segments and ensures that they are compatible with the Internet. Adds sequence numbers so that they can be reassembled at the destination. Creates **packets**.
3. Network Layer: Directs segments through the Internet. Decides which direction a packet should be sent by maintaining the _forwarding table_.
4. Link Layer: Handles the actual transmission of the segments. Responsible for transfer of the packet. It deals with the communication details, i.e. uses CSMA/CD or CSMA/CA. 

**A15:** In order to provide reliability. TCP creates a connection because it wants the destination to know that a message is going to be sent. By receiving an _acknowledgment_ it knows that the server is up and waiting for a message. This gives TCP certain advantages such as re-transmission of the lost packages.

**A16:** TCP is reliable because it uses _acknowledgments_ and _packet retransmission_. If a packet is lost, origin will know of this and re-send the lost package and therefore provide reliability.

**A17:** In UDP, there is no retransmission. In addition, in online gaming, it is not logical to retransmit lost packages because online gaming is real time and fast. Therefore, in real time applications UDP is suitable. It is faster because there is no overhead (packet size is smaller).

**A18:** In real time scenarios such as video streaming, voip, online gaming and situations where re-transmission is not needed such as DNS. 

**A19:** Hop count. When there is a blockage, the traffic must be routed around. However, it should not be infinite. Therefore for every hop in the network, hop count decreases from 64. When it becomes 0, it stops.

**A20:**
